README.md, before:

# SwiftUIJoystick 🕹️
## A customizable Joystick made with SwiftUI
## Create your own Base and Thumb/Handle view using SwiftUI

<p align="center">
  <img src="./Readme_Assets/joystick-nice.gif" width="150" />
</p>

[![SPM](https://img.shields.io/badge/SPM-compatible-green.svg)](https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick)
[![CocoaPods](https://img.shields.io/badge/CocoaPods-compatible-green.svg)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/SwiftUIJoystick)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-A31F34.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
 
- [Examples](#examples)
- [📲 Installation](#-how-to-install-%EF%B8%8F)
  - [Swift Package Manager](#swift-package-manager-spm)
  - [Cocoapods](#cocoapods)
- [🛠 How to use](#-how-to-use)
  - [Example Code](#example-code)
- [🛠 How to Customize](#-how-to-customize)
  - [Setup Joystick Monitor](#setup-a-joystick-monitor)
  - [Use Joystick Builder](#option-1)
  - [Use Joystick Recognizer](#option-2)
  - [Joystick Parameters](#parameters)
- [👨‍💻 Contributors](#-contributions)
- [✍️ Author](#-authors)
- [📃 License](#-license)

## Features
* Customizable background and thumb/foreground
* Normal Joystick Example 
* Locking Joystick Example 
* Polar or XY Coordinates   

<p align="center">
<h3>View these examples to see how to make your own Joystick!</h3>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="./Readme_Assets/joystick-nice.gif" width="150" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="./Readme_Assets/LockingJoystick.gif" width="150" />
  <img src="./Readme_Assets/NormalJoystick.gif" width="150" />
  <img src="./Readme_Assets/LongMultiUse.gif" width="150" />
</p>
 
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/blob/main/SwiftUIJoystickApp/ExampleJoystick.swift">(View Code Example)</a>
  <a href="https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/blob/main/SwiftUIJoystickApp/TestingView.swift#L30-L40">(View Code Example)</a>
  <a href="https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/blob/main/SwiftUIJoystickApp/TestingView.swift">(View Code Example)</a>
</p>



# 📲 How to Install 🕹️

### Swift Package Manager SPM
Add this repository's URL
`https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick`

### Cocoapods
Add this line to your podfile
`pod SwiftUIJoystick`



# 🛠 How to use
### Example Code: 
### Ready to Copy, Paste, and Use (after install with SPM or Pods)

```Swift
// An example Joystick
// Copy this example and modify it

import SwiftUI
import SwiftUIJoystick

public struct Joystick: View {
    
    /// The monitor object to observe the user input on the Joystick in XY or Polar coordinates
    @ObservedObject public var joystickMonitor: JoystickMonitor
    /// The width or diameter in which the Joystick will report values
    ///  For example: 100 will provide 0-100, with (50,50) being the origin
    private let dragDiameter: CGFloat
    /// Can be `.rect` or `.circle`
    /// Rect will allow the user to access the four corners
    /// Circle will limit Joystick it's radius determined by `dragDiameter / 2`
    private let shape: JoystickShape
    
    public init(monitor: JoystickMonitor, width: CGFloat, shape: JoystickShape = .rect) {
        self.joystickMonitor = monitor
        self.dragDiameter = width
        self.shape = shape
    }
    
    public var body: some View {
        VStack{
            JoystickBuilder(
                monitor: self.joystickMonitor,
                width: self.dragDiameter,
                shape: .rect,
                background: {
                    // Example Background
                    RoundedRectangle(cornerRadius: 8).fill(Color.red.opacity(0.5))
                },
                foreground: {
                    // Example Thumb
                    Circle().fill(Color.black)
                },
                locksInPlace: false)
        }
    }
}
```

# 🛠 How to customize
## Start by making a JoystickMonitor
You can subscribe to changes
### Use a JoystickBuilder to build your own Joystick Controls' Background/Base and Thumb/Foreground views

## Setup a Joystick Monitor
#### Setup the observer JoystickMonitor and width of the joystick
```
@StateObject private var monitor = JoystickMonitor(width: 100)
private let draggableDiameter: CGFloat = 100
```

## Option 1
#### Create the Joystick using the Joystick Builder
Joystick Builder applies the joystickGestureRecognizer
```
JoystickBuilder(
    monitor: self.joystickMonitor,
    width: self.draggableDiameter,
    shape: .rect,
    background: {
        // Example Background
        RoundedRectangle(cornerRadius: 8).fill(Color.red.opacity(0.5))
    },
    foreground: {
        // Example Thumb
        Circle().fill(Color.black)
    },
    locksInPlace: false)
```

## Option 2
#### Create your own Joystick tracking View with the JoystickRecognizer
Apply the joystickGestureRecognizer to any of your views to receive updates on the monitor
```
YourView()
    .joystickGestureRecognizer(monitor: self.joystickMonitor, 
                               width: self.width, 
                               shape: self.controlShape,
                               locksInPlace: self.locksInPlace)
```

### Parameters

| parameter    | type            | description                                                                    | default  |
| ---------    | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------- |
| monitor      | JoyStickMonitor | ObservableObect that publishes the Joystick control's XY and Polar coordinates | no       |
| width        | CGFloat         | The width or diameter of the Joystick control                                  | no       |
|              |                 | Output values will be from 0-width                                             |          |
| shape        | JostickShape    | The shape of the Joystick's hitbox area, rectangluar or circular       Valid input: `.rect` or `.circle`  | no       |
| background   | some View       | Any View type input can be put here to create a background for the Joystick    | no       |
| foreground   | some View       | A View for the thumb or foreground of the Joystick                             | no       |
| locksInPlace | Bool            | A bool to determine if the Joystick resets back to the center when release     | no       |

## 👨‍💻 Contributions

All issue reports, feature requests, pull requests and GitHub stars are welcomed and much appreciated. I would enjoy fixing or adding anything you need! 

To make a contribution, I would help you if you ask, or
1. Fork this repo
2. Make your changes and test
3. Update readme as neded and add yourself to Authors section
4. Make a [Pull Request](https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/pulls)
5. After merge update podspec version and project version appropriately (Major/Minor/Patch paradigm)
6. Push changes 
7. Create new [version tag](https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/tags) to match podspec and project version
8. Update pods repo, run this command in the package directory 'pod trunk push SwiftUIJoystick.podspec'

## ✍️ Authors

Created By: Michael Ellis - https://www.michaelrobertellis.com/

Inspired by Bradhowes Joystick for Swift, I had used this previously but I switched to pure SwiftUI

https://github.com/bradhowes/Joystick

A Big Thanks To Steven.Lin
c941010623 - https://github.com/c941010623

## 📃 License

`SwiftUIJoystick` is available under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/blob/main/LICENSE) file for more info

Commit message:

Add new parameters that allows movement restriction in the X or Y axis  - add parameter 'size' to allow Joystick with unequal width and height to be created  - add parameter 'lockOneAxis' to allow either the X or Y axis to be restricted

README.md, after:

# SwiftUIJoystick 🕹️
## A customizable Joystick made with SwiftUI
## Create your own Base and Thumb/Handle view using SwiftUI

<p align="center">
  <img src="./Readme_Assets/joystick-nice.gif" width="150" />
</p>

[![SPM](https://img.shields.io/badge/SPM-compatible-green.svg)](https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick)
[![CocoaPods](https://img.shields.io/badge/CocoaPods-compatible-green.svg)](https://cocoapods.org/pods/SwiftUIJoystick)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-A31F34.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
 
- [Examples](#examples)
- [📲 Installation](#-how-to-install-%EF%B8%8F)
  - [Swift Package Manager](#swift-package-manager-spm)
  - [Cocoapods](#cocoapods)
- [🛠 How to use](#-how-to-use)
  - [Example Code](#example-code)
- [🛠 How to Customize](#-how-to-customize)
  - [Setup Joystick Monitor](#setup-a-joystick-monitor)
  - [Use Joystick Builder](#option-1)
  - [Use Joystick Recognizer](#option-2)
  - [Joystick Parameters](#parameters)
- [👨‍💻 Contributors](#-contributions)
- [✍️ Author](#-authors)
- [📃 License](#-license)

## Features
* Customizable background and thumb/foreground
* Normal Joystick Example 
* Locking Joystick Example 
* Polar or XY Coordinates   

<p align="center">
<h3>View these examples to see how to make your own Joystick!</h3>
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="./Readme_Assets/joystick-nice.gif" width="150" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="./Readme_Assets/LockingJoystick.gif" width="150" />
  <img src="./Readme_Assets/NormalJoystick.gif" width="150" />
  <img src="./Readme_Assets/LongMultiUse.gif" width="150" />
</p>
 
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/blob/main/SwiftUIJoystickApp/ExampleJoystick.swift">(View Code Example)</a>
  <a href="https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/blob/main/SwiftUIJoystickApp/TestingView.swift#L30-L40">(View Code Example)</a>
  <a href="https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/blob/main/SwiftUIJoystickApp/TestingView.swift">(View Code Example)</a>
</p>



# 📲 How to Install 🕹️

### Swift Package Manager SPM
Add this repository's URL
`https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick`

### Cocoapods
Add this line to your podfile
`pod SwiftUIJoystick`



# 🛠 How to use
### Example Code: 
### Ready to Copy, Paste, and Use (after install with SPM or Pods)

```Swift
// An example Joystick
// Copy this example and modify it

import SwiftUI
import SwiftUIJoystick

public struct Joystick: View {
    
    /// The monitor object to observe the user input on the Joystick in XY or Polar coordinates
    @ObservedObject public var joystickMonitor: JoystickMonitor
    /// The width or diameter in which the Joystick will report values
    ///  For example: 100 will provide 0-100, with (50,50) being the origin
    private let dragDiameter: CGFloat
    /// Can be `.rect` or `.circle`
    /// Rect will allow the user to access the four corners
    /// Circle will limit Joystick it's radius determined by `dragDiameter / 2`
    private let shape: JoystickShape
    
    public init(monitor: JoystickMonitor, width: CGFloat, shape: JoystickShape = .rect) {
        self.joystickMonitor = monitor
        self.dragDiameter = width
        self.shape = shape
    }
    
    public var body: some View {
        VStack{
            JoystickBuilder(
                monitor: self.joystickMonitor,
                width: self.dragDiameter,
                shape: .rect,
                background: {
                    // Example Background
                    RoundedRectangle(cornerRadius: 8).fill(Color.red.opacity(0.5))
                },
                foreground: {
                    // Example Thumb
                    Circle().fill(Color.black)
                },
                locksInPlace: false)
        }
    }
}
```

# 🛠 How to customize
## Start by making a JoystickMonitor
You can subscribe to changes
### Use a JoystickBuilder to build your own Joystick Controls' Background/Base and Thumb/Foreground views

## Setup a Joystick Monitor
#### Setup the observer JoystickMonitor and width of the joystick
```
@StateObject private var monitor = JoystickMonitor(width: 100)
private let draggableDiameter: CGFloat = 100
```

## Option 1
#### Create the Joystick using the Joystick Builder
Joystick Builder applies the joystickGestureRecognizer
```
JoystickBuilder(
    monitor: self.joystickMonitor,
    width: self.draggableDiameter,
    shape: .rect,
    background: {
        // Example Background
        RoundedRectangle(cornerRadius: 8).fill(Color.red.opacity(0.5))
    },
    foreground: {
        // Example Thumb
        Circle().fill(Color.black)
    },
    locksInPlace: false)
```

## Option 2
#### Create your own Joystick tracking View with the JoystickRecognizer
Apply the joystickGestureRecognizer to any of your views to receive updates on the monitor
```
YourView()
    .joystickGestureRecognizer(monitor: self.joystickMonitor, 
                               width: self.width, 
                               shape: self.controlShape,
                               locksInPlace: self.locksInPlace)
```

### Parameters

| parameter    | type            | description                                                                    | default  |
| ---------    | --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | -------- |
| monitor      | JoyStickMonitor | ObservableObect that publishes the Joystick control's XY and Polar coordinates | no       |
| width        | CGFloat         | The width or diameter of the Joystick control                                  | no       |
|              |                 | Output values will be from 0-width                                             |          |
| size         | CGSize          | The width and height of the Joystick control                                   | yes      |
|              |                 |  Defaults to the width parameter CGSize(width:width, height:width)             |          |
| shape        | JostickShape    | The shape of the Joystick's hitbox area, rectangluar or circular               | no       |
|              |                 |  Valid input: `.rect` or `.circle`                                             |          |
| background   | some View       | Any View type input can be put here to create a background for the Joystick    | no       |
| foreground   | some View       | A View for the thumb or foreground of the Joystick                             | no       |
| locksInPlace | Bool            | A bool to determine if the Joystick resets back to the center when release     | no       |
| lockOneAxis  | Bool            | A bool to determine if the Joystick prevents movement in the X or Y axis       | no       |       
|              |                 |  When a rectangle with unequal width and height is supplied, movement will be  |          |
|              |                 |  prevented in the axis with the smaller value                                  |          |

## 👨‍💻 Contributions

All issue reports, feature requests, pull requests and GitHub stars are welcomed and much appreciated. I would enjoy fixing or adding anything you need! 

To make a contribution, I would help you if you ask, or
1. Fork this repo
2. Make your changes and test
3. Update readme as neded and add yourself to Authors section
4. Make a [Pull Request](https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/pulls)
5. After merge update podspec version and project version appropriately (Major/Minor/Patch paradigm)
6. Push changes 
7. Create new [version tag](https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/tags) to match podspec and project version
8. Update pods repo, run this command in the package directory 'pod trunk push SwiftUIJoystick.podspec'

## ✍️ Authors

Created By: Michael Ellis - https://www.michaelrobertellis.com/

Inspired by Bradhowes Joystick for Swift, I had used this previously but I switched to pure SwiftUI

https://github.com/bradhowes/Joystick

A Big Thanks To Steven.Lin
c941010623 - https://github.com/c941010623

## 📃 License

`SwiftUIJoystick` is available under the MIT license. See the [LICENSE](https://github.com/michael94ellis/SwiftUIJoystick/blob/main/LICENSE) file for more info
